Reworked new configuration chapter (#28)
langium/langium-website: content/docs/configuration-services.md

---
title: "Configuration via Services"
---

Langium supports the configuration of most aspects of your language and language server via a set of *services*. Those services are configured by *modules*, which are essentially mappings from a service name to its implementation.

We can separate services and modules into two main categories:

#### Shared Services
The *shared services* are services that are shared across all Langium languages. In many applications there is only one Langium language, but the overall structure of the services is the same.
* The `ServiceRegistry` is responsible for registering and accessing the different languages and their services.
* The `Connection` service is used in a language server context; it sends messages to the client and registers message handlers for incoming messages.
* The `AstReflection` service provides access the structure of the AST types.
* Shared services involved in the document lifecycle (future documentation)

#### Language Specific Services
The *language specific services* are services specific to one Langium language and isolated from other languages.
* Services for [LSP features](#language-server-protocol)

> * Services involved in the document lifecycle (future documentation)

Reviewer: Just after a quick look at the 'createModule functions', aren't all document services shared?

Author: Services such as `Linker` and `DocumentValidator` are language-specific and also involved in the document lifecycle.

```
The services which `ServiceClass` depends on need to be registered in the constructor:
```Typescript
export class ServiceClass {
    private readonly serviceOne: ServiceOne;
    private readonly serviceTwo: ServiceTwo;

>     private readonly serviceN: ServiceN;

Reviewer 2: Having `private` on service fields makes it difficult to extend the service class. Even we don't expect end users to create a service class inheritance structure, I believe it to be good practice to have them in the doc as `protected`.

Author: I agree from the perspective of the library / framework code. In user code, I tend to make things private by default because I can simply change that in case I need another visibility. And I would like to not encourage using inheritance in user code. The only reason we use it in Langium is to override default functionality.

If you want to modify aspects of the Language Server, this section will help you find the relevant service for handling a given LSP request.

#### CompletionProvider

> The `CompletionProvider` service is responsible for handling a [Completion Request](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/specification-current/#textDocument_completion) at a given cursor position. When a *Completion Request* is submitted by the client to the server, the `CompletionProvider` will create a `CompletionList` of all possible `CompletionItem` to be presented in the editor. The `CompletionProvider` service computes a new `CompletionList` after every typing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `CompletionProvider` service is responsible for handling a [Completion Request](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/specification-current/#textDocument_completion) at a given cursor position. When a *Completion Request* is submitted by the client to the server, the `CompletionProvider` will create a `CompletionList` of all possible `CompletionItem` to be presented in the editor. The `CompletionProvider` service computes a new `CompletionList` after each keystroke.
```
